well J and Warren thank you very much
for for coming by and thank you for the
facilities Warren you too are unique
even though you're in different spheres
you've reached a level of success almost
legendary what did you do
what made you different Warren we'll
start with you because there in
investing there are a lot of bright
people they've all claimed a read Graham
and Dodd they all claim to be
disciplined and yet there's only one
Warren Buffett well I was lucky that I
got started early I mean it always helps
me get started early and and my dad
happened to be an investment business so
I would go down his office on Saturdays
and so at age probably 7 or something I
started reading these books that were
around the place and so I had a 15 year
jump on many people in a sense and that
that helped a lot and and I was always
fascinated by time I knew what I wanted
to do early and I think that's a that's
a huge advantage too and then you don't
need you you don't need a lot of brains
in this business I mean I've always said
if you got an IQ of 160 give away 30
points to somebody else because you
don't need it in investments what you do
need is emotional stability you have to
you have to be able to think
independently and you have to be you
have to be when you come to a conclusion
you have to really not care what other
people say and just follow the facts and
follow your reasoning and and that's
that's tough for a lot of people but
that part I think I was just lucky when
I was born that way in terms of emotions
it's a truism that investing emotions
are your enemy
absolutely that when the market is good
if you feel good don't if you feel bad
probably do it right but how how did you
what was that extra thing where so many
will acknowledge that and yet we saw in
the current crisis they they panic why
you went into seemingly potential
disasters like GE and Goldman Sachs yeah
I can't really tell you the I mean I
didn't learn in school or anything I
just it never bothered me if people
disagreed with what I thought as long as
I felt I knew the facts I mean I there's
a whole bunch of things I don't know
think about I just stay away from those
so I stay within what I call my circle
of calm
you know that Tom Watson said it best he
said you know he said he said I'm no
genius but I'm smart in spots and I stay
around those spots well I try and stay
around those spots and I I just don't
have a problem if somebody says you know
you're wrong on something I just go back
and look at the facts and I think that I
think that really is much more important
frankly than having a few points of IQ
or or having an extra course or two in
school or anything of the sort you need
emotional stability and so in terms of
people who are not even in the business
if they I think we're talking when we
had dinner the other day about how in
tennis most of us are never gonna get to
Wimbledon but if we just focus as
somebody once said get the ball over the
net
don't try to be fancy about it just get
the ball over the net you'll do fine
yeah and that's a little bit like I've
got this rule you know the first rule is
don't lose in the second rule as never
forget the first rule so it really isn't
so much having a lot of brilliant
decisions it's just not really having
some terrible ones and and and frankly I
did learn from men Graham how to avoid
ever having any disasters and
investments it it wasn't that you were
going to come up with a very smartest
thing but if you never have any any
significant losses you know some singles
and doubles will produce a lot of runs
before you get through who was Ben
Graham he was your primary mentor model
it was a wonderful man and he was my
professor at Columbia I read his book
when I was 19 at the University of
Nebraska and I'd started investing when
I was 11 I started reading about it when
I was like seven
so I gone through all I read every book
in the Omaha Public Library that was on
by the time I was 12 on investing in
stock market and I had a lot of fun but
I never really found out I never got
grounded to anything and it was it was
entertaining but it wasn't going to be
profitable and then I read Graham's book
the Intelligent Investor when I was at
the University of Nebraska and pulled
the whole thing up to me yeah and I and
I named my my oldest son is named Howard
after my dad Graham Buffett and then he
was a marvelous man never expected
anything from me and reach
just did all these things for younger
people if it's just a couple of quick
examples of the things that he did that
you will look back on it's one thing to
read something but quite another seed in
action well he but what do you what he
did was he got me thinking not as a
stock of something with a ticker symbol
that Wiggles around them that you know
that you look at charts aren't
everything
he taught me to think about it as part
of a business and and that was vital any
any and he he taught me not to really
pay any attention to stock market
fluctuations except when they were
working in my favor so that not to get
you know elated because something had
gone up or depressed because it went
down so if I knew the facts on something
and went down I bought more of it you
know and and because I looked at it as a
business and then and then he then he
taught that famous lesson about a margin
of safety that you don't drive a truck
that weighs ninety nine hundred pounds
across a bridge that says limit ten
thousand pounds because you can't be
that sure about it if you see something
like that you go down a little further
down the road and if I went that says
limit twenty thousand pounds and that's
the one you drive across so he in effect
to taught you that stocks weren't just
numbers and as a shorthand for flesh and
blood as and never forgotten it mmm-hmm
J you are in a business that's perhaps
even more competitive because there's
probably not a young person in the
country who at some point in their lives
wants to be an entertainer a star right
and you've not only have done it but
you've done it consistently and even
though you're only forty going on forty
one in that business that's a that's
almost like eighty in warrens world it's
tough to do more than one or two what
looking back what were the things that
broke you out of the packing of the most
dramatic way possible when I was as I
was listening to him I just hate does he
hear all the similarities and all the
things and what he's saying right
because if you don't look at it as
tickers and things like that are you
really just searching for the truth
within you know all that and within all
the numbers and all the chaos you're
just searching for the truth right and
that's the key to being a recording
artist maybe you're telling your story
or finding your truth at the moment you
know III had mine's a little opposite
form
cuz I started a little later my first
album then come out till I was 26 so I
had like a bit more maturity or where I
was at it's my first album had all these
you know emotions and complexities and
layers to them that a typical hip-hop I
didn't have because you know we were
making it at 16 17 years old it wasn't
enough wealth of experience to share
with the world so at 26 I had been
through so many different things I had
so much wealth to share you know with
the world at that time and you know from
that starting point I've never forgotten
those things like you say I'm you never
forget those true things that you stick
through your basic things that that uh
you know make you successful and and and
for me is that true finding that true
the true for the moment of where I am at
the time you know not trying to cater to
a certain demographic you know or you
know not being something I'm not not
driving a truck over Bridgeton value you
know the whole thing like there's so
many similarities and what he was just
saying now in terms of a mentor
you mentioned yet at a young age you've
got a love of words however you've met
and before we recorded you mentioned a
sixth grade teacher brought that out in
you that's lived my lifetime yeah I was
telling you earlier I can um you know
our classrooms where we grew up I grew
up in mossy projects in Brooklyn and um
you know our classrooms were flooded you
know so it's very difficult for teachers
to give you like like one-on-one
attention you know and there's just one
sixth grade teacher named was Miss
Loudoun you know she must have saw
something in me and she gave me this
attention and she gave me this love for
words you know it's funny how it works
you know you know work for me to this
day but I'm just a little bit of
attention you know no she also took us
on a field trip to a house you know
which opened me up to the world you know
my neighborhood had been my world it's
the only thing I'd seen you know you
know I just saw a whole different world
my imagination grew from
you know I wanted that ispired to have
that you know small thing she had like a
ice thing on a refrigerator you know you
push the ice in the water come down I
was really amazed by it I was like you
also even though you didn't record your
first album - you were 26 you in effect
we're writing music in your own mind
yeah I was around music my whole life my
mom and pop had like a huge record
collection so I started out listening to
music early on and I was just write
music and you know I just had a love for
me you know from there I didn't get to
it you know I got caught into my
neighborhood and my surroundings but
I've always taken it with me and I've
always went back to it and it just got
to a point where it was like make this
decision as this is something this
something you really love and you love
to do you know it's time to really focus
on and get serious about it and you know
give it you all and once I know I did
that it was no looking back from there
and you were able to overcome where
where you grew up as you once put it you
saw what happened and things like drug
and where where the life would end and
you decided at some point I'm not going
there yeah just I mean you know those
sort of decisions that happen in you
know many of our lives you know we have
we're faced with that those four you
know the fork in the road moments you
know you know I was around people and
I'm seeing people really genuinely nice
people going away for 13 years and you
know all these uh you know unjust Enrico
fella laws and you know I was just
around that so much that I would just
told myself map and make a decision at
some point and you know I made this
decision to uh you know focus on music
which was my love you know and it worked
out consistency you know people have a
love of music they may do one or two or
three albums and then for some reason
they fade away that hasn't happened to
you I think again again it goes back to
a bit of a warm is saying as well like
if the discipline as well the discipline
to not get caught up in the moment you
know music is like stocks to you know
there's the hot thing of the moment you
know there's this hot electro sound or
the hot auto-tuned voice or the hot
whatever whatever it's new and exciting
and you know you know people tend to
make emotional decisions based on that
you don't stick with what they know this
is who I am this is what you know this
is what I do and then they you know jump
on this next hot thing and you know it's
it's not for you so for me just having a
discipline and having the confidence
that and in who I am you know and if I
go into a studio and if I find my truth
of the moment there's there there are a
number of people in the world that can
relate to what I'm saying and and it's
gonna buy into what I'm doing you know
not because it's the new thing at a
moment but because it's my genuine
emotions is how I feel this out I
articulate the world and you know just
having to discipline to just you know be
yourself because you once said as an
artist you are fighting against
everything that's new and everyone's
fascination with new things
yeah shiny things people fall in love
with shiny things
so in essence as you grow older you
bring an audience with you because topic
of your music grows with you right right
I mean tristeza doesn't go stale yeah
because for hip-hop was like 30 years
old like hip-hop is fairly a new genre
music so we've never seen you know the
maturation of hip-hop you know in this
sort of way there's never happened
before you know people would get a
certain age and still try to pinpoint
this you know you
demographic because if I was a young man
sport but you know people that listen to
hip-hop when they're 18 they still don't
like hip-hop I need 28 it's just that
the voices and hip-hop are not speaking
directly to them anymore
word you know why they were speaking to
a 18 year old demographic you know so
you know you 28 you don't have anything
listened to because no one's relating to
you so you know my whole thing was I'm
not gonna do that
you know I'm just gonna make you know
the music that I love the making and I
want to make and I'm amateur of my music
and you know luckily for me it was the
right decision when did you realize that
not only did you have this ability with
music and not to get stale but recognize
- you have to be treated also even
though you love it as a business so that
you don't end up as so many do they lose
everything they have they're ineffective
denture to companies and they're they're
not masters of their faith yeah that was
the greatest trick in music that people
ever pulled off is to convince artists
that you can't be an artist and make
money I think the people that were
making millions actually said that I
think they set that whole thing up you
know it was almost like shameful like
specially in rock-and-roll you had to
pretend it you know you got these
millionaire guys who had to pretend as
if they wasn't successful at all oh it
would be like a detriment to their
career you know hip-hop so in the
beginning you know just it was always
been aspirational you know just always
broke that thing you know that thing
that an artist can't think as well and I
think at the end of the day as long as
you when you separate the two and you're
not making music with business in mind
because you you at some point you have
it has to be real when they touch it
when they listen to it you know it's
something has to resonate with them
that's real as long as you when you're
in the studio you're you're an artist
you make music and then after you finish
you you market it to the world I don't
think anything is wrong with that
in fact I know there's nothing wrong
with that
and so how going right from the very
beginning you learned about the business
of music because you could well we were
forced yeah we were we were forced in
the beginning I wish I could say we were
geniuses and say we're gonna start our
own company you know that's not what
happened you know in the beginning we
went to every single label and every
single label shut the door on us the the
genius thing that we did was we didn't
give up
we didn't say because these guys you
know we use that what do they know
approach you know we we didn't give up
at that point I think that would you
know I was the genius thing we did we
start sounding our own CDs and we built
their own buzz and then the record
company came back to us so now we had a
different negotiation you know it was in
the same artists label relationship now
we retain ownership in our own company
and it was the best thing for us you
know well one of the things you did
fairly recently was about three years
ago you were with a company you're a
president of a company you saw firsthand
what you thought was wrong with the
music business you wanted out and you're
willing to put money to get yourself out
yeah didn't necessarily one out I wanted
to work with them but I wanted like a
fund in the center President to come
yeah I was the president of Def Jam
Records and I wanted to I wanted to fund
to you know I wanted to work there
because what I wanted to find sure he
was they take all these artists almost
like throwing him against the wall so
you see which ones would stick you
thought that was a huge waste of money
yeah and the music business for a long
time the hit record saw all your
problems because there wasn't an
internet and it wasn't as YouTube and it
wasn't so many other factors it was just
the music so that model still exists of
you know just putting artists out and
see what works you know and as the
machine start moving faster a lot of
things got lost in the process you know
and iron and Latin artists artists
development you know so it got to a
point we were
music business we were releasing
hundreds hundreds and hundreds of albums
every year and you know the percentages
was like really low like 56 albums and
four artists work you know something
like that so I wanted to bring you know
the entire culture into it I wanted to
fund so I could do other things aside
from signing on it's like you know you
buy a television station or buy a club
that you know we can develop these
artists and or you know buy some
headphones you know just all these
different things I wanted to do and I
don't think um at that time you know
they could really get their mind around
it it's not something they were willing
to do and you know I just felt like I
would be wasted so you know I started my
own thing rock nation and you know
that's what we do we pretty much we have
everything from it's a publishing
company you know we have writers you
know it's a recording company we have
it's a touring company it's would you
have sleepless nights when you put what
was it five million dollars to buy out
the con your last contract for an album
yeah it ended that my tough year very
much so I even have a better story for
you so my last year Def Jam you know
when I proposed this and they didn't
working us I went over to him with a
group called Live Nation and made rock
nation but that was me as a businessman
as an artist I still had one album left
with our Def Jam in Universal and I went
to uh Doug Morris and la Reed who was
the chairman of Def Jam at the time you
know he did a great thing for me he
allowed me to you know walk in and have
the conversation with Doug and Doug you
know we had a fantastic relationship so
it was very cool but I I bought my last
album back and people don't know about
is the day I I flew in from Hawaii I was
doing some recording and I had an iPod
in my pocket and I was on a commercial
flight coming from Hawaii to New York
and I had on jogging pants and I'm my
ipod with all the music that I recorded
was missing if it's on the plane so
so I had to walk into the office the
next day and buy an album back that
might leak the next day so every day I
will wake up and I will check all the
internet places and everywhere like for
yeah for like three months I but I I you
know at the end of the day was it was
worth it you know just you know I was
heading in a different direction and
just that freedom and it turned out to
be a great decision for me
it's a great decision for the company
they got some money and you know a great
decision for me got a very successful
album The Blueprint three and you know
which had Empire State of Mind on it was
sewed about you know four million
singles itself and you know it which
someday may become the anthem for New
York yeah actually my first number-one
record was off I mean as the solo
artists tonight number ones is
collaborate with collaborators but my
first number-one across the board record
came off that album so it was like
really good time for me and I think and
I believe in you know everything I'm
lining up so I think it happened at that
time for the right reason that leads to
you mentioned things line up look we all
know hard works essential disciplines
essential staying powers essential but
there's that element there that you
can't quantify but you know it's they're
warned you you you've had some fun with
a lot of luck I mean I'm not just being
born in the United States in 1930 the
odds were like thirty to one against me
I made know that I didn't have anything
to do with picking United States as I
emerged and having decent genes for
certain things and in my own case I was
sort of wired for capital allocation and
being wired for capital allocation a
couple of hundred years ago and Nebraska
wouldn't emit a thing and and even now
being born in various parts of the world
that wouldn't have been much but here I
was in this assumed to be very rich
capitalistic system and and it just so
happened that what I did paid off
enormously in a market system like we
have and I if I'd had a talent in some
other area that was way less commercial
I mean I would have I would have had a
good time doing it but it wouldn't have
paid off like this but of course Jay
said it perfectly when he
talked about he's in the recording for
himself and the money comes afterwards I
mean I I got to do what I love I mean
and it doesn't get any luckier than that
if you can spend your lifetime and I'm
80 now and doing things you love every
single day I mean I would be doing what
I did what I do now and I would have
done it in the past if the payoff had
been in seashells or shark's teeth or
anything else it if you can go to work
every morning I tap-dance to work you
know and I come down and I every day is
exciting
so that is lucky I mean that didn't have
to happen that way if I'd been born in
1930 if I'd been born a female if I'd
been born black I would not have had the
same opportunities that I had I mean I
would it's just a chance I mean I my my
parents love my sister's just as much as
they love me my sisters are just a
smarter smarter than I am in all of that
but they didn't have the same
expectations in the 30s for for a young
smart girls they had for a young smart
guy and so I I've had all kinds of like
I had the luck of I got turned down by
Harvard well getting turned on down by
Harvard that I got to study under Ben
Graham at Columbia which changed my life
all kinds of things have worked out so I
just hope I stay lucky lucky for 80
years you where you grew up you could
have easily yeah discuss with your
friends who did something and by golly
they they were put away and didn't
activity yeah I mean there are very few
people that from my neighborhood you
know in my environment that make it out
I mean forget about being to be
successful to make it out alive
you know ought to be incarcerated you
know for they have a great friend you
know who just came home was one of the
most beautiful people you ever meet you
know he's you know he just came home
from doing 13 years and we were we were
together every single day you know it
had it not been for music and um music
taking me out you know at the right time
you know my life could very easily have
been his very easily we were together
every single day mentioned a story about
London you yeah so um they did you know
into different things we were into a lot
of Street things and you know just so
happened I had a talent to make music
and uh a guy by the name of jazz what
started out with really early you know
he got the opportunity he got to deal
with EMI he had out but Sue needed to go
to London to record his album and uh you
know I went along with him and we wait
for two months well then that two months
there was a sting operation and he took
you know my friend I'm talking about
took him away for 13 years and the only
reason I was in there because I was away
you know doing this music stuff amazing
business models we've touched on it that
just because you've done something right
before with a music business there
customer doing things a certain way
world changes they can adjust Warren
what advice do you have you've seen it
in the newspaper business you may know
named Washington Post Buffalo News right
legalize monopoly 30 IQ you could put
them in those businesses and they
succeed there it happened rashing it
happens I mean Street railways were big
hearing all the hundred years ago I the
but I will say this about investing
everything you do learn is cumulative I
mean that doesn't mean that industry
stay good forever or businesses stay
good forever but but learning to think
about business models what I learned at
20 is useful to me now what I learned to
25 is useful to me now and so it's not
it's not so it's not a field that
changes dramatically in terms of the
underlying principles it's like physics
I mean there's underlying principles now
they're doing all kinds of things with
physics I weren't doing 50 years ago but
but if you know the if you got the
principles if you know what makes a good
business if you know what makes a good
manager you know if you knows what they
say a good product and you learn that in
one business you can't there is some
transference to other businesses if you
go along and you learn what things
you're not going to understand I mean
knowing what to leave out is important
there's no anger to focus on and I don't
think I can win every game you know
somebody said how do you beat Bobby
Fisher you play many game except chess
excellent I don't play bobby fischer's
yes that's there's a lot of value there
ordering that over time and and learning
what you're good at and what you're not
good at and J your business is like the
newspaper business you've you yourself
have said that record companies are an
anachronistic that they lost it they
lost it with Napster explain how they
did it and what you learned from it and
how you think and go forward and survive
in an environment where it would have
been true for decades is no longer true
yeah I think that's that a big thing
apart about a business is recognizing
change you know you know that the
variables are not the same you know
there's a big thing called the internet
so it changes the landscape of
everything I think the consumption of
music as is that all-time high but as we
see that music business is down so
something has to be done there you know
it was a time in in music where a hit
solved everything you just had a hit it
didn't matter what what's going on you
know get a hit and you know it solved
everyone's problem or a lot of things
you know that's that's that's no longer
true not today and I think you know just
having that mentality for so long I
think it's the music business is still
stuck in that place because I mean you
know we haven't figured that it we
haven't figured it out that Napster they
made a huge mistake on Napster yeah well
Napster came along and uh there was this
file-sharing thing and um at the time we
had we had the opportunity to embrace it
and this way you can control it it was
one place but when you stopped one map
when you stopped Napster and we shut
down Napster just the arrogance that we
had it made a million Napster's now it's
impossible to control you know just just
that sort of thinking you know gee I I
think a business won one of the biggest
thing is to open yourself up for change
you don't have to change who you are and
how you operate but just you know
you know if the landscape has changed
and the way we do business has to change
somewhat you have to change who we are
we have to change the way we go about it
because like I said the consumption of
music is higher than ever
well you've done it in your own music as
you've gotten older
you've brought audiences with you and
others have not what are you doing in
terms of the model that's been shattered
in music you mentioned when you left the
record label company you saw you how to
do certain things how are you recreating
a model but one we've taken our time
with with you know artists and artist
development the to it is just so many
different parts of the business that we
in you know for a long time music wasn't
into touring you know now maybe they're
making up these 360 I don't want this to
be like a record company bashing English
360 model and it's like you don't that's
not what you you know the record company
does the record company is not in the
touring business so why would an artist
sign your rights to you and that's not
what you do that's not your area
expertise you know but where we you know
we agree with the biggest concert
promoter is so there's you know we're
into publishing it's just so many
different aspects of music we and when
we're into more of it now and we're you
know we're getting better at it
you know just to open up different
avenues you know make ourselves
successful so touring clothing and also
movies publishing you know just I don't
want to be with them the tours you were
wise enough or big enough for something
where you don't mind sharing billing
with Eminem or bono yeah it's fun for me
for one and for two like we were saying
in college you know one plus one is
three for me you know I don't have that
eat
we are you know I have to be the only
guy on the field of the only one that
people look at you know I'm I'm cool
with going out without what other
artists I've been doing in my entire
career
you know before Eminem before bono he
was you know our Kelly and all 50 cent
on you know DMX you know I've been doing
in my entire career I just believe that
you know the given people a better
package you know that when they leave
the concert all they want to come back
again you know you can get them there
the first time you know if what you're
putting on is not incredible and
impactful than how they why would they
come back the second time you know I
think that's a lot of you know a lot of
people make that mistake you know when
they're hot at the moment you know they
just sell them you know they stay they
date they sell off the name and sell off
the moment yeah that does shiny things
you fall in love with shiny things you
sell off the moment and then when people
come to the concert they don't have the
experience well we're over delivering on
the experience you know you're not only
getting Eminem you're getting Eminem mjz
you not only get bono you're getting
bono and jay-z you can't help but leave
that concert you know with it almost
like a once-in-a-lifetime experience
every single time that's what I'm trying
to create Oh warrant you said you
wouldn't want to compete against J what
advice would you he's supa dupa joking
what advice would you have
man who's succeeded in a business where
it's often short-lived being convulsed
how do you would like to businesses
where you say there's a moat where the
competitors can't get you what advice
would you give them Jake at building
moats well he's building moats I mean
all the time I mean obviously that's why
succeeding even though he's moved beyond
the age that you normally associate his
field but so the best moats you can have
is your own talent you know I mean it's
they can't they can't take it away from
you they inflation can't take it from
you
taxes can't take it from you so I when I
talk to students I see these students
and I tell them you know you're a
million dollar asset I would pay you a
hundred thousand dollars the MBAs for 10
percent of the earnings for the rest of
your life so that makes you a
million-dollar asset now if you can do
something to increase that value 50
percent if you can learn to communicate
better verbally or in written form and
you become 50 percent more that's five
hundred thousand dollars just by
improving yourself I mean nobody can
take that away from you and so I heard
you everybody you know and then I talked
to him in high school about this and and
and and colleges just develop develop
the habits you've got the brainpower you
got the energy but develop the habits of
success and then look around you with
the people that you admire you know and
list what makes you admire them compared
to somebody else that looks equally
strong or equally talented and those are
those are things that you can do let me
just write them down and and and you
know people like people that are there
they like them if they're humorous
they're friendly if they're if they're
they give credit to the other fellow I
mean I and and they don't like them if
they're stingy you know or they
overstate know we're promised and all
those sort of things
well that's decision that's a decision
you make so so I encourage everybody to
build your own moat around yourself Jay
you have any advice you want to give to
Warren on building moats
I get brilliant thinker
this then gets to what is money for you
greatly succeeded you haven't made the
mistakes that others made to get a
success and then you let destroy your
discipline in terms of the only so many
stakes we can eat our hamburgers or
whatever the value-added we'll start
with a Warren maybe you can start this
part of the conversation the value-added
you always had was you could employ
capital multiply it which meant more
businesses more people for pensions more
hiring that was a great service I was
doing a real public good yet a few years
ago you decided you were gonna do
something in addition to multiplying
capital which meant opportunity and a
higher standard of living what Steve if
you go back really when I was in my 20s
I mean I I it sounds obnoxious but I
really did know I was going to become
rich I mean it because it I just learned
something that was gonna work and and my
wife and I decided then I mean she was
on represent on board my first wife and
on this and we we were going to enjoy
life we're gonna have everything to
possibly use Ernie but incidentally I
think a five-hour dinner in many cases
is better than a dinner point yeah of
course of living and standard over
you're not necessarily the same but I
thought I would compound money in a rate
above that what well above average yeah
and and we decided we'd live well we
never denied ourselves anything in that
independence so I could do what I wanted
to do and and and then I felt one way or
another we will go back to society now I
thought my wife would outlive me she was
a little younger and women live longer
but man and she she loved the actual
process of of seeing people with
problems that money would help and I
love I love the game I was in so I
thought we wouldn't you know basically
we'd pile it up and she would did the
distribution of it and and she did a lot
of it while she was alive but the big
money was gonna be later on and then she
died but while I was still alive and
then I had to make a decision as to the
best way to get this money spent
in an intelligent way relatively
promptly and I came up with the idea of
splitting among five foundations the
largest which of the Gates Foundation
that was four years ago and I couldn't
be more pleased with the decision I
didn't didn't hide myself anything I
mean I I eat everything I want I travel
any place I've eaten I'd Society
something that the capital if he'd keep
employing it might have done more good
well Berkshire still around I'm still
running it charities but I'm making for
a lot of other people right so I didn't
have to give up anything I didn't even
you know I didn't have to give up what I
love doing every day I didn't have to
give up any material thing in the world
and and my three children are each
involved with a Foundation which lets
them put money behind their energies and
no I think it it's really worked out
wonderfully for me I mean it's a minute
perfect solution and you know when my
wife was pregnant I didn't think I was
going to deliver her baby you know and
and you know if I get a toothache or
something I don't take out my own tooth
I I turned it over I follow Adam Smith's
advice you know I turn it over to a
specialist and there's no reason to
think that because I'm good at making
money that I would be the best
necessarily at distributing it I want
certain goals in terms of how its
distributed but I'm perfectly willing to
turn it over to people we're gonna spend
their lives specializing in that I want
them to get it done promptly and I want
it to be in sync with the kind of things
I want to I want to support but I don't
think I have to do it myself
now in terms of that many times
foundation gets set up and often in our
direction there's thing called
Parkinson's law that in an organization
becomes self-centered in for itself and
forgets its purpose that it was created
for I see it all the time and you see it
in business that's why they go broke
often times but in foundations you see
it so you made a provision that that was
not going to happen with your funds and
yeah they had to be those monies had to
be employed what within ten years ten
years after my stage completed yeah and
then the money has to all be spent it
can't go to institutions which in turn
put it in their endowment or anything
like that I I want people that I know
and I
I know her in sync with me and I know
we'll be true to certain ideals I want
them to dispense it because who the hell
knows fifty years from now you know when
the place becomes some large institution
what will happen people will rationalize
them that what's good for the
institution is exactly what old Warren
thought 40 years ago his deathbed so
I've seen that happen too often and and
now I foundations are not tested by a
market system I mean if you've got a
business idea and he's got music it's
being tested by a market system whether
people will make a decision with whether
that next next album is good and they'll
make a decision you know I'm whether
coca-cola still keeps them happy and all
that sort of thing a foundation has no
market test so it's very easy if there's
not a market test as people will find
out and government never plays it's very
easy to start rationalizing things that
are a long way from what you originally
people thought you're good setting out
to do and you are in terms of you're
just beginning looking at charities and
you have a very unusual one scholarship
fund Shawn Carter scholarship fund
describe it and where do you think you
see it going yeah for me yeah that the
reason I focused on that because such a
small thing changed my life writer a
sixth grade teacher said you know what
you're kind of smart and not and I and I
believe they're said I'm smart right so
she gave me that sort of opportunity she
sparked the idea in my mind so that's
why my first thing is uh the scholarship
fund because there are ton of very
intelligent kids that's coming out of
these urban areas who who can make it
all the way if given the opportunity and
so the challenge that I gave to my mom
and my mom is so involved with it like
she she gets on the bus and she takes
these kids to there to interview with
colleges and you know now we're starting
to see kids graduate from college and
you know that sort of feeling you know
when it's real you know I'm not just
sitting home writing a check and you
know for whatever reason make myself
feel good or anything like this is
something that I really
to do and I'm really you know into and
excited about so it's effective
philanthropy in other words right I mean
yeah I'm seeing the results I'm seeing
you know we getting our first graduate
summa sean.conner scholarship program
which is like me the best thing ever
and this seems like a contradiction when
you think of Commerce it's meeting the
needs and wants of others you provide
the music people like it you do well
they get the pleasure more on investment
returns good companies and again
philanthropy if you think about it it's
almost the same opposite side of the
same coin meeting the needs and wants of
others a little different way of doing
it but again as you say it's not just
writing a check it's making sure it's
actually delivering what it's supposed
to deliver right it's tougher than
business Tuesday because you're looking
for easy things to do in business I mean
you know you're looking you know people
of like drinking coca-cola for a hundred
years they'll probably like it for
another hundred years it doesn't require
any great great power to figure that
kind of thing out but in philanthropy
often you're tougher you're tackling the
tougher problems of society or you're
attacking the tackling things where
people who applied money and
intelligence before and haven't really
solved the problem I mean education is a
great example
so you're really taking on things where
you're not going to succeed every time
and if you like succeeding every time
it's you know you have to get it you
have to adjust to that
if you succeed a hundred percent the
time at philanthropy the projects are
too easy and you know you've got to look
for four things that are important and
where you may fail right now Gates is
working on polio eradicating because
they haven't gotten 99% of the way there
but the last 1% is very tough and nobody
knows for sure with it that will get
done you know we did it with smallpox in
the past than that so it it's a
different mindset and and you don't get
the same feedback you get in business
either immediately that gets also do it
universal things learning from mistakes
one of the things you do in your annual
report which has become a classic is you
will discuss what went wrong
like Dexter and what you how and what
you learn from it during tough tough to
do well it's it's very important
recognizing this thing I mean if
somebody goes around and says you know I
never made a mistake I mean you quit
listening to okay so facing up to it
it's it's a little like in terms of
discussing issues you should be able to
discuss the other fellows position just
as well as you can discuss your own so I
mean that's part of thinking well and
and certainly part of making good
decisions in business is recognizing the
poor decisions you've made and why they
were poor and and and that doesn't mean
you never do the same thing I mean it
because sometimes it was a freaking
situation but but I have made lots of
mistakes I'm gonna make more mistakes
but and I'm paper route struck out a lot
of times I mean it's the name of the
game that you do it you don't want to
expect perfection in yourself you want
to strive to do your best but but it's
too demanding to expect perfection in
yourself and it does some good to
recognize them and that circle trying to
go around kidding people about them
getting the message out you've done a
very high profile thing to get the
message out on giving why and what do
you think it's gonna lead and then I
want to ask Jay very different audience
how do you get the message out on the
importance of philanthropy on helping
people so they can have the
opportunities you had absolutely well
the way I got the message out was to get
a copy of Forbes and look down that 400
list and start making phone calls thank
you okay some of the did the same thing
and and we we've only called 80 or so
people so far and some of might know
some of them I don't know and I mean
we've gotten way better reception to
some extent we hydrated the mind as I
say in the mining business so we picked
people in many cases but not all cases
where we knew that they had pretty
strong philanthropic interest but it was
very low-key and we just asked them if
they would
sign a pledge not legal but moral that
they would give away at least half of
their net worth either during their
lifetimes earth or death and and about
half of the people that we call they may
be slightly over half that said they'd
be delighted and we've asked him to tell
her own story and the stories are
fascinating I mean how people got to
that decision how they evolved how their
family was involved in it how maybe
personal experiences that shape that but
it was really bad very encouraging I
don't think you'd find that in any other
society in the world other than the
United States and we'll see how far it
goes but if it will go further but even
if it only went as far as it's gone it
will have an impact so they think that
even though even those who were giving
are now in effect in their minds topping
it I think certainly certainly in some
cases I know that's the case and the
very fact of getting involvement
spending more time thinking about it
talking with your family more about it I
don't think it ever leads to reduce
giving and I think sometimes it well
I've seen examples of it here it's led
the more the real interesting thing will
be as if at least a smarter giving over
time we hope to get this group together
once a year and talk about again
mistakes but do you see the same kind of
entrepreneurship we see in commerce in
philanthropy in there a handful of large
organizations and except for Habitat for
Humanity and a couple of others they've
been around for decades yeah there's
there's some it's harder to evaluate
it's not a market system right you can't
put out a P&L at the end of the year and
you can't measure things you know I
don't believe in measuring quarterly
results in business but but the the
timetable on many things is much longer
in philanthropy so it's not as easy a
game to me as business but it's an
important game and then the fact that
you can't do it perfectly does not mean
that you should sit on the sidelines and
it does not mean you can't learn from
others I I will I've already learned
something from the three or four dinners
we've had and talking to people but the
stories are
interesting people do they do things
that are amazingly affected they do
things that where they bomb for one
reason or another but we will have
smarter philanthropy in this country ten
and twenty years from now I think than
we have now and I think in a small way
this will contribute to it so keep
publishing the list so I can milk it JJ
will soon be on it but J yeah in terms
of a philanthropy obviously you're very
much focused on your business right now
as Warren was on his for a long time but
how do you get the message out to a
different audience that it doesn't
haven't even be dollars it's time and
what your teacher did taking you and
showing you another world or your mother
getting you emotionally with your father
in a way in which you could move forward
in your life and improve your life yeah
I think the first the first step for us
because you know we as far as
entertainers we like the first
generation that really capitalize off
our talent for many years you know
artists who they were dying broke
because the record company took
advantage him in some way from shaping
up right we this is like that really
first generation I mean we're be
fundamental mothers rock star to my
final so the first thing for us for me I
believe is to lead by example and show
and show how these things have been
affecting people's lives in a real way
and and to tell that story of this is
the neighborhood that made me and I know
there's few future generation of stars
in this neighborhood as well that we
must help out as well you know if given
opportunity you know someone what
someone can be if given the opportunity
so my first thing is to show by example
and then i'ma slowly pull a guy like you
know me and pop media I think we could
have done more I think we put a visited
and been there closer but we've made a
huge pledge to you know Katrina together
you know we you know we did that united
front and we've made a donation together
old hip-hop that sort of power how we
can get together and do these sorts of
things so again my first thing is to do
it by example and show it how it works
and show the example of you know how
opportunities change people lives and
you know we'll move forward from there
and looking both forward and backwards
when you think of certain people that
pass like philanthropy Andhra Carnegie
steel big steel man versus billionaire
but great Public Works libraries 150
hundred years from now when people say
Warren Buffett what words and forwards
have talked about we say Berkshire
Hathaway yeah I hope is so around then
doing very well so I'll come back and
haunt him I know I well I bet has not
been very complicated or I mean a
followed somebody else's teachings and
but what I really hope if he could pick
one word it would be teacher I mean I
and I got enormous about that min-jae's
talk about his sixth grade teacher I
think almost anyone that's been
successful has had a teacher maybe not a
formal teacher I mean it could you know
it can be a parent obviously yeah but
somebody's had a teacher that's affected
them and and and if you couldn't pass
that along
I think that's better than money
actually Jenny oh man
because in some senses you're a pioneer
yeah I think about it is I hope to
inspire like I guess Obama took this
thing already but you know just the hope
of you know how far we can make it in
the hope of you know if you really apply
yourself and stay true to who you are
you know how far you can come from where
you come from you know because my sort
of success I mean where I'm from it's
like Jay is teaching all the time I mean
I mean he's he's teaching a lot bigger
class from the Nala rotation and it's a
you know it's important I mean they're
gonna learn from somebody you know a
young person growing up and you know
he's a guy to learn from so just the
hope you know and I think that that's
crucial especially as people begin to
recognize yes you're fantastic artists
but unlike artists of the past you also
knew how to take control of your destiny
by learning about business learning
about distribution all the innards of
production so that you weren't going to
lose what you created Hey right well
thank you thank you thank you